EXERCISES

1.1 Explain the difference a register and the ALU.
    A register stores the result of a computation, whereas the ALU
    carries out computation.

1.2 Explain the difference between assembly language and machine language.
    Assembly language uses mnemonics and is transformed into machine
    language with an assembler.

1.3 Explain the difference between cache memory and the register file.
    Cache memory stores recently accessed data, while the register
    file stores results of computations.

1.4 Explain the difference between the IR and the PC.
    The IR stores the most recently accessed instruction, while the
    PC points to the location in memory where the next instruction
    to be loaded into the IR.

1.5 Explain the difference between a bus and a control line.
    A bus transports data between various components of the CPU,
    while a control line selects an input bus in a multiplexer.

1.6 Identify a kitchen appliance that contains a control unit that
issues control signals.
    A microwave has a control unit that issues control to select
    various temperatures and cooking times.

1.7 What is an algorithm?
    An algorithm is a list of instructions for accomplishing a task.

1.8 Provide a step-by-step description of the sequence of operations
that must take place within a MIPS processor to fetch and execute
the "load word" instruction.
    1. The processor loads the load word immediate instruction from
    the PC.
    2. During the operand fetch phase, the target register (Rs) is
    loaded, and the register containing the address to load from
    (Rt), are decoded during this stage. The offset is loaded from
    the instruction.
    3. During the execute phase, the 32-bit address is routed to
    the ALU.
    4. In the write back phase, the word at the 32-bit address is
    stored in the target register.

1.9 Provide a step-by-step description of the sequence of operations
that must take place within a MIPS processor to fetch and execute
the "store word" instruction.
    1. The processor loads the store word immediate instruction
    from the PC.
    2. During the operand fetch phase, the target register (Rs) is
    loaded, and the register containing the address to store at
    (Rt), are decoded during this stage. The offset is loaded from
    the instruction.
    3. During the execute phase, the 32-bit address is routed to
    the ALU.
    4. In the write back phase, the word in the source register is
    stored at the address in the target register.
